\section{Wrapper}\label{wrapper}

\subsubsection{Context}\label{context}

An active project with more than a few participants, and possibly with
{\textbf{Newcomers}} arriving frequently.

\subsubsection{Problem}\label{problem}

In a very active project, it can be effectively impossible to stay up to
date with all of the details. Not everyone will be able to attend every
meeting (see
{\textbf{\href{http://peeragogy.org/patterns/heartbeat/}{Heartbeat}}})
or read every email, and project participants can easily get lost and
drift away. The experience can be even worse for {\textbf{Newcomers}}:
joining a project already going can feel like trying to get aboard a
rapidly moving vehicle. If you've taken time off, you may feel like
things have moved on so far that they cannot catch up.

\subsubsection{Solution}\label{solution}

A project contributor can summarize what has happened recently in the
project, making progress comprehensible to participants who have not
been following all of the details.\footnote{In the Peeragogy project,
  this idea was initially suggested by Charlie Danoff, adapting an idea
  from his Indiana University class on EFL teaching led by Faridah
  Pawan. The idea was that someone take on the ``wrapper role'' -- do a
  weekly pre/post wrap, so that new (and existing) users could get a
  feel for the status of the project at any given point in time.} If
they are kept up to date, a project's
\href{http://socialmediaclassroom.com/host/peeragogy/}{landing page} and
{\textbf{Roadmap}} also serve as a sort of ``wrapper'', telling people
what resources they can expect to find in the project and how they can
participate.

\subsubsection{Rationale}\label{rationale}

The wrapper must check the public summaries of the project from time to
time to make sure that they accurately represent the facts on the
ground.\footnote{In the first year of the Peeragogy project, the
  ``Weekly Roundup'' by Christopher Tillman Neal served to engage and
  re-engage members. Peeragogues began to eagerly watched for the weekly
  reports to see if our teams or our names had been mentioned. When
  there was a holiday or break, Chris would announce the hiatus, to keep
  the flow going. In the second year of the project, we did not
  routinely publish summaries of progress, and instead, we assumed that
  interested parties will stay tuned on Google+. More recently, Charlie
  has begun publishing irregular wrap-up
  \href{http://peeragogy.org/peeragogy-wrapper-post-9-feb-5-apr-2015/}{blog
  posts} and e-mails again, which helps keep people who don't read
  Google+ up to date.}

\subsubsection{Resolution}\label{resolution}

According to the theory proposed by Yochai Benkler, for free/open
``commons-based'' projects to work, it is vital to have both (1) the
ability to contribute small pieces; (2) something that stitches those
pieces together @coases-penguin. The wrapper helps perform this
integrative stitching function, which is often much more challenging
than the job of breaking things down into pieces or just doing one of
the small pieces.

\subsubsection{What's Next}\label{whats-next}

We need better practices for automating the wrapping-up process. One of
the latest ideas is to develop a simple visual ``dashboard'' for the
project that would be a web page people could access and immediately get
an idea of what work is ongoing in the project with links for going more
in depth and/or contributing.
