== Which is more fun, skateboarding or physics? ==

=== On the subject of fun and boredom ===

# Kano, J. (1995/2013). [http://judoinfo.com/kano.htm The Contribution of Judo to Education] by Jigoro Kano.
# Wallace, D.F. (2011). ''The [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Pale_King Pale King].'' NY: [http://www.amazon.com/Pale-King-David-Foster-Wallace/dp/0316074225 Back Bay Books].
# Khayati, M. (1966).''[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/On_the_Poverty_of_Student_Life On the Poverty of Student Life]''.

== How do we know if we’ve won? ==

# Forming, Norming, Storming, Performing (from Bruce Tuckman)
# The “five-stage e-moderating model” (from Gilly Salmon)
# I, We, Its, It (from Ken Wilber)
# Assimilative, Information Processing, Communicative, Productive, Experiential, Adaptive (from Martin Oliver and Gráinne Conole)
# Guidance &amp; Support, Communication &amp; Collaboration, Reflection &amp; Demonstration, Content &amp; Activities (from Gráinne Conole)
# Considered in terms of “Learning Power” (Ruth Deakin-Crick ''et al''.)
# Multiple intelligences (after Howard Gardner)
# The associated “mental state” (after Mihaly Csíkszentmihályi; see picture)

== Motivation ==

# Simon Sinek, Start With Why: How Great Leaders Inspire Everyone To Take Action, Penguin Books, 2011

== Case Study: 5PH1NX ==

# Senge, Peter. &quot;The fifth discipline: The art and science of the learning organization.&quot; ''New York: Currency Doubleday'' (1990).

== Patterns ==

=== Further readings on patterns ===

# [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Timeless_Way_of_Building The Timeless Way of Building], by Christopher Alexander.
# Article, “Manifesto 1991” by Christopher Alexander, Progressive Architecture, July 1991, pp. 108–112, provides a brief summary of Alexander’s ideas in the form of a critique of mainstream architecture. Many of the same sorts of critical points would carry over to mainstream education. Some highlights are excerpted [https://plus.google.com/u/0/108598104736826154120/posts/agWYcqPhqSN here].
# [http://www.wikipatterns.com/display/wikipatterns/About Wikipatterns]
# [http://www.patternlanguage.com/archive/ieee/ieeetext.htm The Origins of Pattern Theory, the Future of the Theory, And The Generation of a Living World], Christopher Alexander’s talk at the 1996 ACM Conference on Object-Oriented Programs, Systems, Languages and Applications (OOPSLA)

=== Other related work ===

# [http://www.cluetrain.com Cluetrain Manifesto] (the [http://www.cluetrain.com/book/index.html First edition] is available for free)
# [http://www.kk.org/newrules/contents.php New Rules for the New Economy][http://www.kk.org/newrules/contents.php (you can also][http://www.kk.org/newrules/contents.php read the book online])
# OpenHatch.org, “an open source community aiming to help newcomers find their way into free software projects.”

=== On Newcomers ===

# [http://lapessc.ime.usp.br/public/papers/13872/CHASE13_present.pdf Why do newcomers abandon open source software projects?] (sildes by Igor Steinmacher and coauthors)

== Antipatterns ==

# [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linguistic_relativity Sapir-Whorf Hypothesis]
# Bourdieu's notion of “[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Symbolic_violence symbolic violence]”.
# [http://www.livingneighborhoods.org/ht-0/fifteen.htm These fifteen properties are the glue which binds wholeness together] - Christopher Alexander's more recent work, going beyond the idea of a pattern language.

== Convening a Group ==

# Engeström, Y. (1999). Innovative learning in work teams: Analyzing cycles of knowledge creation in practice. In Y. Engeström, R. Miettinen &amp; R.-L-. Punamäki (Eds.), ''Perspectives on activity theory'', (pp. 377-404). Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press
# Gersick, C. (1988). Time and transition in work teams: Toward a new model of group development. ''Academy of Management Journal'' 31 (Oct.): 9-41.
# Mimi Ito's observations about [http://mitpress.mit.edu/books/full_pdfs/hanging_out.pdf manga fan groups co-learning Japanese]
# Rheingold U, [http://socialmediaclassroom.com/host/mindamp5/lockedwiki/main-page MindAmp groups]
# Shneiderman, B. (2007). [http://doi.acm.org/10.1145/1323688.1323689 Creativity support tools: accelerating discovery and innovation]. ''Commun. ACM'' 50, 12 (December 2007).
# David de Ugarte, Phyles. ([http://david.lasindias.com/phyles/ Summary]) ([http://deugarte.com/gomi/phyles.pdf Book])
# Scheidel, T. M., &amp; Crowell, L. (1964). Idea development in small discussion groups. ''Quarterly Journal of Speech'', 50, 140-145.
# Scheidel, T. M., &amp; Crowell, L. (1979), ''Discussing and Deciding - A Desk Book for Group Leaders and Members'', Macmillan Publishing
# Paragogy Handbook, [http://peeragogy.org/organizing-a-learning-context/connectivism-in-practice-how-to-organize-a-mooc/ How to Organize a MOOC]
# Cathy Davidson et al., [http://news.rapgenius.com/Cathy-davidson-how-a-class-becomes-a-community-theory-method-examples-chapter-one-lyrics How a Class Becomes a Community]

== K-12 Peeragogy ==

=== amazing technology tools for your classroom: ===

* [http://www.freetech4teachers.com/ Richard Byrne]
* [http://langwitches.org/blog/ Sylvia Tolisano]
* [http://catlintucker.com/2011/11/12-tech-tools-that-will-transform-your-classroom/ Caitlin Tucker]
* [http://coolcatteacher.blogspot.ca/ Vicki Davis]

=== How to develop your PLN: ===

* [[%20http://thecleversheep.blogspot.ca/2012/06/seven-degrees-of-connectedness_06.html|Degrees of Connected Teaching]] by Rodd Lucier
* [[%20http://thecleversheep.blogspot.ca/2012/06/seven-degrees-of-connectedness_06.html|TeachThought]]

=== Theory &amp; philosophy of connnected learning for classroom transformation: ===

* [http://pairadimes.davidtruss.com/ David Truss]
* [http://www.downes.ca/presentation/264 Steven Downes]
* [http://willrichardson.com/ Will Richardson]

== Case Study: Collaborative Explorations ==

# Paley, V. G. (1997). The Girl with the Brown Crayon. Cambridge, MA, Harvard University Press.
# Paley, V. G. (2010). The Boy on the Beach: Building Community by Play. Chicago, University of Chicago Press.
# Taylor, P. J. and J. Szteiter (2012). Taking Yourself Seriously: Processes of Research and Engagement Arlington, MA, The Pumping Station.
# White, M. (2011). Narrative Practice: Continuing the Conversation. New York, Norton.

== Adding Structure with Activities ==

# [http://dschool.stanford.edu/wp-content/uploads/2011/03/BootcampBootleg2010v2SLIM.pdf The d.school Bootcamp Bootleg] (CC-By-NC-SA) includes lots of fun activities to try. Can you crack the code and define new ones that are equally cool?
# Puzio, R. S. (2005). &quot;On free math and copyright bottlenecks.&quot; ''Free Culture and the Digital Library Symposium Proceedings''.

== Connectivism in Practice — How to Organize a MOOC (Massive Open Online Class) ==

# Downes &amp; Siemens [http://change.mooc.ca MOOC site]
# [http://halfanhour.blogspot.com/2007/02/what-connectivism-is.html What Connectivism Is] by Stephen Downes
# [http://www.downes.ca/post/33034 An Introduction to Connective Knowledge] by Stephen Downes
# [http://www.downes.ca/presentation/290 Facilitating a Massive Open Online Course], by Stephen Downes
# [http://grsshopper.downes.ca/index.html gRSShopper]
# [[%20http://www.elearnspace.org/Articles/connectivism.htm|Connectivism: A Learning Theory for the Digital Age]] by George Siemens
# [http://en.wikiversity.org/wiki/Connectivism_glossary A Connectivism Glossary]
# [http://www.connectivism.ca/?p=329 Rhizomes and Networks] by George Siemens
# [http://innovateonline.info/pdf/vol4_issue5/Rhizomatic_Education-__Community_as_Curriculum.pdf Rhizomatic Education: Community as Curriculum] by Dave Cormier
# [http://www.amazon.ca/Knowing-Knowledge-George-Siemens/dp/1430302305 Knowing Knowledge], a book by George Siemens
# [http://www.amazon.com/Net-Smart-ebook/dp/B007D5UP9G Net Smart,] Howard Rheingold (about internal and external literacies for coping with the 'always on' digital era)
# [http://www.learningsolutionsmag.com/articles/886/ Massive Open Online Courses]: Setting Up (StartToMOOC, Part 1)
# [https://sites.google.com/site/themoocguide/ The MOOC guide]

== Co-Facilitation ==

# [http://www.scribd.com/doc/54544925/51/TRAINING-TOPIC-Co-facilitation-skills Peer Education: Training of Trainers Manual]; UN Interagency Group on Young Peoples Health
# [http://www.breakoutofthebox.com/Co-FacilitatingPfeifferJones.pdf Co Facilitating]: Advantages &amp; Potential Disadvantages. J. Willam Pfeifer and John E Johnes
# [http://reviewing.co.uk/archives/art/13_1_what_do_facilitators_do.htm#8_WAYS_OF_FACILITATING_ACTIVE_LEARNING Summary] of John Heron’s model of the role of facilitators
# [http://www.infed.org/thinkers/et-rogers.htm C][http://www.infed.org/thinkers/et-rogers.htm arl Rogers, Core Conditions and Education], Encyclopedia of Informal Education
# [http://www.studygs.net/peermed.htm Peer Mediation], Study Guides and Strategies
# [http://sk.cupe.ca/updir/cofacilitation-handouts.doc Co-Facilitation: The Advantages and Challenges], Canadian Union of Public Employees
# [http://community.bistudio.com/wiki/Bohemia_Interactive_Community:Guidelines Bohemia Interactive Community Wiki Guidelines]
# Barrett-Lennard, G. T. (1998) ''[http://openlibrary.org/works/OL2014352W/Carl_Rogers'_Helping_System Carl Roger's Helping System. Journey and Substance]'', London: Sage
# [http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Wikipedia:Five_pillars&oldid=501472166 5 Pillars of Wikipedia], from Wikipedia
# ''[http://www.africom.mil/WO-NCO/DownloadCenter/%5C40Publications/Training%20the%20Force%20Manual.pdf Training the Force]'' (2002) US Army Field Manual #FM 7-0 (FM 25-100)
# [http://dmlcentral.net/blog/howard-rheingold/learning-reimagined-participatory-peer-global-online Learning Reimagined: Participatory, Peer, Global, Online], by Howard Rheingold
# [http://www.researchgate.net/ Research Gate] is a network dedicated to science and research, in which members connect, collaborate and discover scientific publications, jobs and conferences.
# [http://ctb.ku.edu/en/tablecontents/section_1180.aspx Creating and Facilitating Peer Support Groups], by The Community Tool Box
# [http://www1.villanova.edu/content/villanova/artsci/vcle/resources/toolkit/_jcr_content/pagecontent/download_8/file.res/FacilitationTips.doc Facilitation Tips], by Villanova University
# [http://pippabuchanan.com/2011/09/04/herding-passionate-cats-the-role-of-facilitator-in-a-peer-learning-process/ Herding Passionate Cats: The Role of Facilitator in a Peer Learning], by Pippa Buchanan
# [http://webpages.sou.edu/~vidmar/SOARS2008/vidmar.ppt Reflective Peer Facilitation: Crafting Collaborative Self-Assessment], by Dale Vidmar, Southern Oregon University Library
# [http://www.umass.edu/ewc/ea/Facilitation%20Skills/important%20tips.doc Effective Co-Facilitation], by Everywoman's Center, University of Massachussetts
# “[[www.ncsu.edu/park_scholarships/pdf/chris_argyris_learning.pdf?|Teaching smart people how to learn]]” by Chris Argyris, Harvard Business Review 69.3, 1991; also published in expanded form as a [http://www.amazon.com/Teaching-People-Harvard-Business-Classics/dp/1422126005 book] with the same name.

== Assessment ==

# Morgan, C. and M. O'Reilly. (1999). [http://www.amazon.com/Assessing-Distance-Learners-Flexible-Learning/dp/0749428783/ref=tmm_pap_title_0?ie=UTF8&qid=1388199564&sr=1-1 Assessing Open and distance learners.] London: Kogan Page Limited.
# Schmidt, J. P., Geith, C., Håklev, S. and J. Thierstein. (2009). [http://www.irrodl.org/index.php/irrodl/article/view/641/1389 Peer-To-Peer Recognition of Learning in Open Education]. ''International Review of Research in Open and Distance Learning''. Volume 10, Number 5.
# L.S. Vygotsky: [http://books.google.com/books?id=RxjjUefze_oC&printsec=frontcover&source=gbs_atb#v=onepage&q&f=false Mind in Society: Development of Higher Psychological Processes]
# [http://org.sagepub.com/search?author1=Reijo+Miettinen&sortspec=date&submit=Submit Reijo Miettinen] and [http://org.sagepub.com/search?author1=Jaakko+Virkkunen&sortspec=date&submit=Submit Jaakko Virkkunen], [http://org.sagepub.com/content/12/3/437.abstract Epistemic Objects, Artifacts and Organizational Change], ''Organization,'' May 2005, 12: 437-456.

== Technologies, Services, and Platforms ==

# Irene Greif and Sunil Sarin (1987): Data Sharing in Group Work, ACM Transactions on Office Information Systems, vol. 5, no. 2, April 1987, pp. 187-211.
# Irene Greif (ed.) (1988): Computer-Supported Cooperative Work: A Book of Readings, San Mateo, CA: Morgan Kaufman.
# Irene Greif (1988): Remarks in panel discussion on “CSCW: What does it mean?”, CSCW ‘88. Proceedings of the Conference on Computer-Supported Cooperative Work, September 26-28, 1988, Portland, Oregon, ACM, New York, NY.
# Kamnersgaard, 1988
# Vessey &amp; Galletta, 1991
# Norman, 2001, 2003
# DeSanctis &amp; Pool, 2004

=== Additional Tips from an open source perspective ===

Care of User:Neophyte on the Teaching Open Source wiki.

# The Art of Community
# Open Advice
# The Open Source Way

== Forums ==

# Rheingold, H. [http://blip.tv/file/1123048 Why use forums?] ''Social Media Classroom''.
# Rheingold, H. (1998). [http://www.rheingold.com/texts/artonlinehost.html The Art of Hosting Good Conversations Online].
# Gallagher, E. J. (2006). [http://www.lehigh.edu/~indiscus/doc_guidelines.html Guidelines for Discussion Board Writing]. Lehigh University.
# Gallagher, E.J. (2009).[http://www.academiccommons.org/2009/01/shaping-a-culture-of-conversation-the-discussion-board-and-beyond/ Shaping a culture of conversation. The discussion board and beyond]. The Academic Commons.
# Academic Technology Center. (2010). [http://www.wpi.edu/Academics/ATC/Collaboratory/Idea/boards.html Improving the Use of Discussion Boards]. Worcester Polytechnic Institute.

== Real-time Meetings ==

# Howard Rheingold's webconferencing [http://delicious.com/hrheingold/webconferencing bookmarks].

== Still more recommended reading ==

=== On Paragogy ===

# Corneli, J. (2010). Implementing Paragogy. Lesson plan. Wikiversity.
# Corneli, J. and C. Danoff. (2010/2013). ''Paragogy''.

=== On Learning vs Training ===

# Hart, J. (April 20th, 2012). Is it time for a BYOL (Bring Your Own Learning) strategy for your organization? ''Learning in the Social Space. Jane Hart's Blog.''

=== On PLNs ===

# Rheingold, H. (2010). [http://dmlcentral.net/blog/howard-rheingold/shelly-terrell-global-netweaver-curator-pln-builder Shelly Terrell: Global Netweaver, Curator, PLN Builder.] ''DML Central.''
# Richardson, W. and R. Mancabelli. (2011). [http://www.amazon.com/Personal-Learning-Networks-Connections-Transform/dp/193554327X Personal Learning Networks: Using the Power of Connection to Transform Education]. Bloomington, IN: Solution Tree Press.
# Howard Rheingold’s PLN links on Delicious

=== A word list for your inner edu-geek ===

You can read about all of these things on Wikipedia.

# [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Constructivism_(philosophy_of_education) Constructivism]
# [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Social_constructivism Social constructivism]
# [http://www.english.iup.edu/mmwimson/Syllabi/803/721/Radical%20Constructivism%20%20%20721.htm Radical constructivism]
# [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Enactivism_(psychology) Enactivism]
# [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Constructionism_(learning_theory) Constructionism]
# [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Connectivism Connectivism]

