``Obviously such a project as Steal This Book could not have been carried
out alone. Izak Haber shared the vision from the beginning. He did
months of valuable research and contributed many of the survival
techniques. Carole Ramer and Gus Reichbach of the New York Law Commune
guided the book through its many stages. Anna Kaufman Moon did almost
all the photographs. The cartoonists who have made contributions include
Ski Williamson and Gilbert Sheldon. Tom Forcade, of the UPS, patiently
did the editing. Bert Cohen of Concert Hall did the book's graphic
design. Amber and John Wilcox set the type. Anita Hoffman and Lynn
Borman helped me rewrite a number of sections. There are others who
participated in the testing of many of the techniques demonstrated in
the following pages and for obvious reasons have to remain anonymous.
There were perhaps over 50 brothers and sisters who played particularly
vital roles in the grand conspiracy. Some of the many others are listed
on the following page. We hope to keep the information up to date. If
you have comments, law suits, suggestions or death threats, please send
them to: Dear Abbie P.0. Box 213, Cooper Station, New York, NY 10003.
Many of the tips might not work in your area, some might be obsolete by
the time you get to try them out, and many addresses and phone numbers
might be changed. \emph{If the reader becomes a participating researcher
then we will have achieved our purpose.}'' -- Abbie Hoffman (emphasis
added)
